documentation/oauth2.asciidoc, before:

= OAuth2 Documentation

This document gives a step-by-step implementation with technical explanation on how Oauth2 works
and how to test it with https://github.com/tanbt/oauth2oltu[oauth2oltu @ *GitHub*]
and https://github.com/tanbt/oauth2oltu-client[oauth2oltu client website @ *GitHub*].

There 4 main factors in an OAuth2 flow:

* *End-user*: The one who registered an account in *Authorization Organization* to use its resource.
E.g. a facebook account.
* *Client*: The company which allows end-user to login their website/app via an account from *Authorization Organization*.
* *Authorization Server*: This belongs to the authorization organization. It verifies user's login information such as password.
* *Resource Server*: This belongs to the authorization organization. *Client* can access it with an access token to receive resources.


== Database Schema
See https://github.com/tanbt/oauth2oltu/blob/master/documentation/database-schema.asciidoc[Database Schema].

== OAuth2 flow

=== 1. Register an end-user account

=== 2. Register an OAuth client account

=== 3.

Commit message:

Check if authorization code or access token are existed and valid when login
* return the existed-valid code/token
* otherwise, create new one and save to db then return it

documentation/oauth2.asciidoc, after:

= OAuth2 Documentation

This document gives a step-by-step implementation with technical explanation on how Oauth2 works
and how to test it with https://github.com/tanbt/oauth2oltu[oauth2oltu @ *GitHub*]
and https://github.com/tanbt/oauth2oltu-client[oauth2oltu client website @ *GitHub*].

There 4 main factors in an OAuth2 flow:

* *End-user*: The one who registered an account in *Authorization Organization* to use its resource.
E.g. a facebook account.
* *Client*: The company which allows end-user to login their website/app via an account from *Authorization Organization*.
* *Authorization Server*: This belongs to the authorization organization. It verifies user's login information such as password.
* *Resource Server*: This belongs to the authorization organization. *Client* can access it with an access token to receive resources.


== Database Schema
See https://github.com/tanbt/oauth2oltu/blob/master/documentation/database-schema.asciidoc[Database Schema].

== OAuth2 flow

=== 1. End-user registers an end-user account

=== 2. Client registers an OAuth client account

=== 3. End-user click to the Oauth2 Login button on Client's website

=== 4. The website redirects End-user to


http://localhost:8080/oauth/token?redirect_uri=http://localhost:8081/loginByOauth&grant_type=authorization_code&code=3463f323a0b676a44e9e5ed0480b076f&client_id=testid1234&client_secret=testid1234secret
